#summary A brief introduction to Sparrow templates.

= Introduction =

Sparrow is a template language heavily inspired by Cheetah. It started out as an experiment to see if techniques from the compiler world were applicable to the mundane details of templates.

At this point, Sparrow works - at least in theory. There are basic tests cases that assure templates are parse, compile, generate and execute correctly. Most language features are covered with a high-level test.

= Details =

The syntax itself is extremely similar to Cheetah, however there are some directives and language features that have been omitted (usually on purpose).  The change log and parser.g file are currently the primary source of information on this, which is not the best. More documentation to come.

Trivial Cheetah templates will probably compile in Sparrow, so that's probably a good place to start.

= Current Release =
 * [http://msolo.googlecode.com/svn/tags/sparrow-0.5.5 sparrow-0.5.5]
 
= Performance =

Sparrow has a basic optimizer that can make certain operations much faster. I found a basic table generation benchmark written by the Genshi team.  I modified it to add Cheetah (my baseline performance target) and Sparrow.

{{{
weaponx:~/Projects/sparrow> python tests/perf/bigtable.py
Genshi tag builder                            967.96 ms
Genshi template                               721.81 ms
Genshi template + tag builder                1029.01 ms
Mako Template                                 240.77 ms
Cheetah template                               56.39 ms
Sparrow template                               59.54 ms
Sparrow template -O1                           53.75 ms
Sparrow template -O2                           15.90 ms
Sparrow template -O3                            9.35 ms

weaponx:~/Projects/sparrow> python                           
Python 2.4.3 (#1, Jan  5 2007, 00:05:16) 
[GCC 4.0.1 (Apple Computer, Inc. build 5367)] on darwin
>>> 
}}}