#summary FastCGI to WSGI adapter

= Introduction =

Wiseguy is a WSGI compliant FastCGI server largely implemented in C for speed.  It contains a few patches on top of the venerable C implementation to deal with various bad behaviors under high load.  In addition to being reasonably fast and low overhead, it contains a number of features that make it well suited for large production sites.

= Installing =

There are three components to wiseguy, to it takes a few moments.  The WiseguyInstallationInstructions list a step-by-step process that should work.


= Examples =

A small test application is included to make sure the wiseguy installation went well and that you have some hope of running your own.  The WiseguyExampleTutorial should take a few moments to go through.


= Details =

== Process Management ==

== Embedded Admin HTTP Server ==

Right now, wiseguy supports spawning a small HTTP server on a separate port (usually 4001) which can be used for managing the wiseguy daemon.  Currently, it only allows connections from localhost.

=== Cycle Children ===

This is adds additional options to the usual SIGHUP behavior.

 * `curl http://localhost:4001/server-cycle?workers=4&skew=2&force=1`
    * workers - dynamically adjust the number of worker processes
       * (no sanity checking - 32768 would not be a good input)
    * skew - seconds between child kills - prevents machine from cpu spikes caused by restarting interpreters
    * force - send a SIGKILL to actually kill the children

=== Profiling CPU Consumption===

Spawn a new child to collect Hotshot profiling data.

 * `curl http://localhost:4001/server-profile?request_count=1000&profile_uri=^/home`
    * request_count - number of requests to run through the profiler
    * profile_uri - a regex that indicates if a request should be run through the profiler

If you specify both request_count and profile_uri, as in the example, you will collect 1000 executions of servlets matching /home.

=== Profiling Memory Consumption===

Sometimes it is helpful to know when memory is getting consumed at a macro level. This will show up in the wiseguy log file. Note that this will cycle all of the children.

 * `curl http://localhost:4001/server-profile-memory?enable=1&min_delta=0`
    * enable - 0 or 1 - toggles memory logging on and off
    * min_delta - minimum change in memory usage (in kilobytes) that is worth logging


= Current Release =

Trunk is semi-stable, but wiseguy-0.5.4 is production-ready.

 * [http://msolo.googlecode.com/svn/tags/wiseguy-0.5.4 wiseguy-0.5.4]


= Release Notes =

I note most of the progress in the [http://msolo.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/wiseguy/CHANGES change log].